So right now we are subscribing users,
and it's working.
But before actually see if this works,
let's discuss for
a second if it's necessary to request
subscription details on every payload.
So the spec says that the subscription
details might change, why?
Maybe the push server is
changing implementation.
Maybe the user is upgrading
the OS to a new version, or
the user is recovering
a backup in a new device.
So there are many situations where
it seems like it's the same user and
the same browser, but
the details have changed.
So it's actually a good practice
to always request subscription
even if you already have it and
update that in your server.
Okay, but you're thinking, well,
what happens with abandoned
details like yeah that user is not
using the old details anymore.
Well, when you're sending a message, so
when we are in this scenario,
at the end when we are sending a message.
The push server also give us
an HTTP status code in return.
And one of the codes
actually in the payload,
it comes in the payload
not in the status code.
It can tell us that the details,
the subscription is expired,
which means that user
doesn't exist anymore.
So in that case,
you can delete that from your database.
That also happens if the user
is revoking permission.
Yeah, you have the details but
the user went to settings and
revoked notification permission for you.
So then next time you send a message to
that user, you will receive a message back
saying, hey, no, sorry,
that user is not bad anymore.
Okay, so now back to our code,
what we need to do is to receive
the push from the server and
create the notification.
That's actually a push event listener that
we have already created that
is kind of empty right now.
And here we show a notification.
We call self registration,
show notification.
It needs a title, a mandatory body,
and a mandatory icon as well.
We need to set an icon.
There are many other properties that
I will show you in a minute, but
those are the basic ones.
That will render a notification on
the screen, as simple as that, okay?
So what about the body?
As you can see here, I might take
the body that is sent by the server.
So the server,
when the server sends a message,
the message can include the payload,
it's actually optional.
So I can just send the message without
payload that will trigger the process,
it will wake up the service worker.
And the server worker can notify
wherever it says like once.
Maybe a service worker can go
to the server download news.
And with that, generate a notification.
You don't need to use the payload.
The payload, how much payload can you
send safely between all the browsers?
2K of data.
So you can send the JSON binary
data if you want, or a JSON.
The JSON, the data that you receive
can be used to update an index DV or
to generate the message
that the user will see.
So you can parse event.data as text as
JSON as a rebuffer, whatever you want.
You can use that within the body or not.
Okay, so you're not forced to use the data
that the server sent to notify the user.
It's up to you, okay?
So let's go back then
to our service worker,
I think that at the top we
already have an EventListener.
So what we need to do is
talk to our registration.
And from here,
we are going to show a notification.
So if you remember we have already
seen before the other API.
The other API was actually pretty similar,
but we were creating a new notification.
It's actually pretty simple and
pretty similar.
It has a title like Frontend Masters,
and then options.
So actually, this is the same or
a similar signature,
But a different way to access
that notification factory.
So here it showNotification and
the other one was new notification, okay?
So mandatory body,
again we can take the data as text or
as JSON, and
then parse the data that we're receiving.
It's up to you.
Or as text or no, or you can just do here,
Any text, can be fixed,
can be wherever you want.
You can go and check and
create a message from index DV.
So body is mandatory and also icon.
So for the icon,
I will use, I have here in
the public folder > Images > icon.png.
And kind of dots.
How can we test this?
Before checking if the server is sending
the message, how can we test this?
We can use the tester in Google Chrome,
okay?
So that's the simplest way to test this.
So we can go back here,
go to the application tab.
Within service workers,
we have a section for push.
If I send in a message, push,
I didn't get it because we
need to make sure that we have
a new version of the service worker,
remember that.
Check update on reload and reload because
we are changing the service worker, okay?
How do you know which version of
the service worker is currently running?
Because the file is this one, but
you don't know exactly
which version do you have?
You can find them in sources
under this little icon that's
service worker and
here you can see the current version.
So you can see that this should
show a notification, right?
So from here or
from the server, okay?
So what about the server?
Again, we are not covering
the back-end part here, but
what I did is that broadcast.js file.
This broadcast,js file is using
that web-push library, okay?
It's using the private key and public key,
and it's creating the message, okay?
And actually this is the code.
It's not really complicated, okay?
But actually it's right now
it's taking our database.
And for each user,
it's creating a new message.
You need to create one HTTP request
per user, per endpoint, okay?
And for each one,
you're going to use your keys.
Why, because also you use
that to encrypt that message.
So you encrypt the payload with users
public key and your private key.
Okay, so it's a complex scenario
to avoid security issues.
So to use this, you can open a terminal.
And from the terminal, using node.js.
You use node space, okay, broadcast.
If you just use the tool as this,
it will create a message.
This is a test push
message from the server.
But if not,
you can add a message after that.
I don't know,
hello Frontend Masters, okay?
So this is going to loop
through all the browsers and
it's going to send the message.
The problem that I do have right now,
so if I look here,
I do have some messages, okay?
So I have one, by the way, for
some reason, well not a reason,
because it's Safari,
Safari is not using the icon for now.
So you can see only the name of
the website, the domain, the origin and
hello Frontend Masters.
So Chrome is using the icon, okay?
So it's better but Firefox I'm not
seeing Firefox and why is that?
Because I think I didn't refresh
the service worker on Firefox.
So Firefox because I
didn't even check Firefox.
Firefox has my old service worker that
wasn't actually showing any notification.
Okay, so I need to make sure
that they all have the last
version of the service worker, okay?
So now let's clear this out.
Let's go to Firefox, for example.
Load this again.
Also if I open the inspector,
Firefox has a very simple tool with an
application to check the service worker.
So I can unregister my server by both.
So I unregister the service worker,
I reload.
So I know for
sure it has the latest one, okay?
So if I try again, so node broadcast
"Web Push Rocks!" That's giving me that.
But I think the problem is
that it's escaping the,
Yeah, it was escaping
the exclamation mark.
Okay, so, I'm still not getting Firefox.
So you can see also here it says,
the best place to learn front end.
I think that Chrome also has the old
version of the service worker.
So it's not taking the body
it was a fixed string.